So we'll take 20 minutes or so to go through that.
We'll take a look at what this code could look like,
and then we'll finish up with any questions or deeper dives into any of
the topics that we covered over the last couple of days.
Alright,
so we'll at least go over the basic configuration in
tracking the initial page view.
And then the custom event tracking would happen within the guts of your Vue.
js application as you're selecting different filters,
if you're interested in tracking like which todos are
being clicked and things like that.
We'll kind of focus on the page view one right now.
So, the first thing that you would need to do is npm intall universal-analytics,
and then we would create a visitor,
which we would have to propagate to other pieces of our application.
So, we create a new visitor object with ua,
and then we would pass in the tracking code that we created when we
signed up for a new Google Analytics account.
I actually already had one,
so I just created a new property which gives me a
tracking ID that I can use in my code.
So I'm going to copy that and plop that guy right in there.
Now, once I do that, the signature to actually track a page view is visitor.
pageview and then we would pass in the current page being viewed.
I think the default, if you don't pass one in,
is just trying to get the location of the current page.
But you could do something like window.
location.
href to pass in the current page.
And then the event, the way that this particular API is set up,
the event won't actually fire until you hit send.
And then that will actually initially send off the page view to Google
Analytics to track that event in your application.
Now,
the way that you would probably approach adding this to the router for
the application is having this router function take,
in addition to the Vue app as a parameter,
also this visitor object.
So if we go to the routes, in addition to taking the app,
we'll accept a visitor as an argument.
And then for each of those we'll configure the router to send a page
view event when any of these routes are reached.
So,
within each of these in addition to setting this property on
the Vue app that's going to be a part of the Vue model for the
visibility of the current todos, we'll also call visitor.
pageview and then we'll pass in / visibility,
which is the shorthand for the slug that we're seeing.
So we'll track all of those different filters as an
individual page view in our application.
And once again,
we'll have to immediately hit send to actually send that off to Google.
So in a single page application,
this is typically what you would do if you are
handling routing on the client-side.
You'll need to manually send those page view events to
Google or else every visit to your site,
even if it's a single page application,
will appear as if it was only a single page view when in fact they
might be viewing multiple pages within your spa.
So that's the basics of page views.
And then also with that visitor object within your
JavaScript that's going to be handling events for button
clicks and other user-created events,
you have the capacity to create those custom events,
which you can then use in your Google Analytics reporting later on.
But, that's pretty much all there is to it.
The only bit that you probably are going to want to do,
and that was part of the GitHub issue,
was to only execute this logic if you're in production.
So there's a couple ways you could do that,
but probably the easiest is in the Vue.
We already have some logic here that is conditionally
executed based on the current environment,
so inside this same conditional,
we could place some additional JavaScript that would maybe just set like window.
environmentType = production, or something like that.
So we would conditionally create that JavaScript in our
application and set that JavaScript property such that we
could access it from our client-side code.
So now, like say in our app.
js, before we actually go to the trouble of creating this visitor,
we could do a check, so if window.
environmentType == production,
then you would actually go through and create the visitor,
otherwise you wouldn't because you won't want to
track that stuff in development mode.
Once you actually do get this implemented,
there is a delay before the data starts coming into Google Analytics.
It says it can be up to a couple of hours.
In my experience, it can be anything from a few minutes to a couple hours.
So it'll be kind of dependent on how things are moving
through the Google tubes on a given day.
But it could take quite some time before the data starts showing up.
So,
that is a one handy way to implement Google Analytics and
integrate it within the rest of your JavaScript. if you're building a JavaScript application in this way.